Add information and example of combining SHOW and TERMINATE commands with regular Cypher (#1528)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/deprecations-additions-removals-compatibility.adoc

Features removed in Cypher 25 are still available on Neo4j 2025.06+ databases either by prepending a query with `CYPHER 5` or by having Cypher 5 as the default language for the database.
For more information, see xref:queries/select-version.adoc[].

[[cypher-deprecations-additions-removals-2026.XX]]

> == Neo4j 2026.XX

Author: ```suggestion
[[cypher-deprecations-additions-removals-2026.05]]
== Neo4j 2026.05
```

> === Updated in Cypher 25

Author: TODO: also add information about SHOW SETTINGS, SHOW TRANSACTIONS, TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS and SHOW DATABASE null-input update here

Features removed in Cypher 25 are still available on Neo4j 2025.06+ databases either by prepending a query with `CYPHER 5` or by having Cypher 5 as the default language for the database.
For more information, see xref:queries/select-version.adoc[].

[[cypher-deprecations-additions-removals-2026.05]]
== Neo4j 2026.05

=== Updated in Cypher 25

[cols="2", options="header"]
|===
| Feature
| Details

a|
label:functionality[]
label:updated[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
SHOW FUNCTIONS
YIELD name, signature
WITH name, collect(signature) AS signatures
FILTER size(signatures) > 1
RETURN name, signatures
----

> a| Show indexes, constraints, current graph type, functions, procedures, settings, databases, and transactions and terminate transactions can now be combined with general Cypher clauses in a single query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a| Show indexes, constraints, current graph type, functions, procedures, settings, databases, and transactions, and terminate transactions can be combined with general Cypher clauses in a single query.
```

> When combined with other clauses the `YIELD` clause is mandatory, `YIELD *` is not permitted and the query needs to end with a valid last clause (like a `RETURN` or an updating clause).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When combined with other clauses, the `YIELD` clause is mandatory. `YIELD *` is not permitted, and the query must end with a valid last clause (like a `RETURN` or an updating clause).
```

> For show databases, the all parts of the query need to be allowed on the system database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For `SHOW DATABASES`, all parts of the query must be allowed on the system database.
```

a|
label:functionality[]
label:updated[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
SHOW SETTINGS null
----
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
SHOW TRANSACTIONS null
----
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS null
----
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
SHOW DATABASE $nullParam
----

> a| Show settings, databases, and transactions and terminate transactions now treat `null` input the same as non-existent input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a| Show settings, databases, and transactions, and terminate transactions treat `null` input the same as non-existent input. 
```

> So the show commands filter them out and terminate transactions return a row about transaction not found.

Reviewer: Maybe something like this:
 
```suggestion
They filter out the null input row, while `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` returns a row for 'transaction not found'. 
```

Author: what? I don't understand your sentence. The point of my sentence was that show databases, show settings and show transactions filter out the null input row, while terminate transactions return a row for 'transaction not found'. I don't feel like that is captured in your suggestion

Reviewer: Ok, then, I didn't understand your sentence.

Author: Maybe this is better?
```suggestion
Show databases, settings and transactions filter out the `null` input and terminate transactions return a row about the transaction not being found.
```

Reviewer: It can still can be understood as 
"Show databases, etc. filter out ... and terminate transactions." Also, we'll have "Show databases, settings and transactions in two consecutive sentences."

How many rows can be returned?
Can we say something more general:
Show databases, settings, and transactions filter out `null` inputs. Terminate transactions returns a row for each transaction that is not found.

Features removed in Cypher 25 are still available on Neo4j 2025.06+ databases either by prepending a query with `CYPHER 5` or by having Cypher 5 as the default language for the database.
For more information, see xref:queries/select-version.adoc[].

[[cypher-deprecations-additions-removals-2026.05]]
== Neo4j 2026.05

=== Updated in Cypher 25

[cols="2", options="header"]
|===
| Feature
| Details

a|
label:functionality[]
label:updated[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
SHOW FUNCTIONS
YIELD name, signature
WITH name, collect(signature) AS signatures
FILTER size(signatures) > 1
RETURN name, signatures
----

> a| Show indexes, constraints, current graph type, functions, procedures, settings, databases, and transactions, and terminate transactions can be combined with general Cypher clauses in a single query.

Author: ```suggestion
a| Show indexes, constraints, current graph type, functions, procedures, settings, databases, and transactions, and terminate transactions can be combined with each other and general Cypher clauses in a single query.
```

| Explicit path modes such as `ACYCLIC` can now be combined with restrictive path selectors, such as `SHORTEST`.
For more information, see xref:patterns/reference.adoc#mixing-restrictive-path-selectors-and-explicit-path-modes[Patterns -> Mixing restrictive path selectors and explicit path modes].

a|
label:functionality[]
label:updated[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
SHOW FUNCTIONS
YIELD name, signature
WITH name, collect(signature) AS signatures
FILTER size(signatures) > 1
RETURN name, signatures
----
a| Show indexes, constraints, current graph type, functions, procedures, settings, databases, and transactions, and terminate transactions can be combined with each other and general Cypher clauses in a single query.

> When combined with other clauses, the `YIELD` clause is mandatory. `YIELD *` is not permitted, and the query must end with a valid last clause (like a `RETURN` or an updating clause).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see xref:show.adoc#composable-show-commands[SHOW -> Composable `SHOW` commands].
```

Author: don't I need a longer path to the `show.adoc`? it's not in the same folder as this file?

Author: like this, right?
```suggestion
For more information, see xref:clauses/show.adoc#composable-show-commands[SHOW -> Composable `SHOW` commands].
```

Reviewer 2: Yes 😄

> For `SHOW DATABASES`, all parts of the query must be allowed on the system database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For `SHOW DATABASES`, all parts of the query must be allowed on the system database.
For more information, see the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/database-administration/standard-databases/listing-databases/#_show_quarantined_databases_and_lift_their_quarantine[Operations Manual -> Show databases].
```

a|
label:functionality[]
label:updated[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
SHOW SETTINGS null
----
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
SHOW TRANSACTIONS null
----
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS null
----
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
SHOW DATABASE $nullParam
----
a| Show settings, databases, and transactions, and terminate transactions treat `null` input the same as non-existent input. 
The show commands filter out the `null` input.
Terminate transactions return a row about the transaction not being found.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

For full information about these commands, see the following pages in the Operations Manual:

* link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/database-administration/standard-databases/listing-databases/[Show databases]
* link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/configuration/show-settings/[Show settings]
*  link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/database-internals/show-and-terminate-transactions/[Show settings]
```

Author: ```suggestion

For full information about these commands, see the following pages in the Operations Manual:

* link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/database-administration/standard-databases/listing-databases/[Show databases]
* link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/configuration/show-settings/[Show settings]
*  link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/database-internals/show-and-terminate-transactions/[Show and terminate transactions]
```

SHOW DATABASE $nullParam
----
a| Show settings, databases, and transactions, and terminate transactions treat `null` input the same as non-existent input. 

> Show databases, settings and transactions filter out the `null` input and terminate transactions return a row about the transaction not being found.

Reviewer: What happened to my comment and suggestion? I can't see it anymore.

Reviewer: Copying it here:
It can still can be understood as
"Show databases, etc. filter out ... and terminate transactions." Also, we'll have "Show databases, settings and transactions in two consecutive sentences."

How many rows can be returned?
Can we say something more general:
Show databases, settings, and transactions filter out null inputs. Terminate transactions returns a row for each transaction that is not found.

Author: I think it got resolved as I accepted the suggestion (likely in parallell to you writing your comment as it wasn't there when I did that and you still saw it as open)

(it's still there just resolved: https://github.com/neo4j/docs-cypher/pull/1528#discussion_r3246849677)

Author: On amount of rows: Terminate transaction will only return one row for `null` even if you supply multiple null values as it filters out duplicate ids.

(show settings and transactions also de-duplicate their input (show databases only take in one value and not a list so not relevant there), but since they filter out null it's not as relevant)

Author: And I think 
> Also, we'll have "Show databases, settings and transactions in two consecutive sentences."

was why my first sentence had 
> the show commands filter them out

instead of repeating the three show commands

Updated suggestions:

```suggestion
Show databases, settings and transactions filter out the `null` input. 
Terminate transactions return a row about the transaction not being found.
```
```suggestion
The show commands filter out the `null` input. 
Terminate transactions return a row about the transaction not being found.
```

Reviewer: Maybe the second one.
